Speaking something like MIDI (TM):

    Disclaimer!  The protocol used here is a subset of the MIDI (TM)
    standard but we probably can't label the device as MIDI (TM)
    compliant, since it's their standard and we didn't pay them a dime.

    MIDI (TM) uses a self-synchronizing protocol of seven bit data,
    using the 8th bit of an octet to denote a status byte and
    synchronization boundary.  Most messages are fixed width;
    variable width SEM messages are terminated by the next
    non-realtime status byte.

    Note that MIDI has "running status" (avoids retransmitting the
    status byte when it doesn't change between commands), so for the
    special case of steering the system through one channel, only
    data bytes need to be sent in some cases.

    Pervasively, we use the "manufacturer ID" of 0x6F which is part of
    the "other" range.  Yeah yeah, not standard, but it's $200/yr. for
    a real identifier, which is absurd.  We don't answer 0x7F all-calls
    except in response to identify.

    We bake into the firmware an intial device ID.  End users' software
    should make some effort to move device IDs on the local network to
    a nonoverlapping namespace (see NRPNs below).

Usage of channels:

    Channels 0 to 4 correspond to the on-chip oscillators.

    Despite that MIDI allows multiple notes to be playing on
    a given channel at a time, we support only one note down at once,
    which will be that given by the most recent Note On command.
    That is, the device behaves something like a Mode 4 (omni off,
    monophonic) device but perhaps without all the features.

    Each oscillator can be in one of the following states:
        "on-song"   -- following the selected song in real-time (default)
        "on-track"  -- following a given track
        "off-track" -- following a given instrument using given notes

Commands understood at any time:

8x  Note on chan x (note as is, velocity == 1/2 volume)
    (That is, set oscillator active with tnote and volume as given)
    Note that this is probably only useful when the song is off-track.

Cx  Set instrument for channel.  See bank select below.

XXX Bx control change parameters may be useful to map some of our
XXX commands onto the standard vocabulary, hacks like NRPN
XXX not withstanding.

Bx 006. nn  Set NRPN coarse value to nn.
Bx 032. 00  Set "bank" for instruments to be the song indirected table.
Bx 032. 01  Set "bank" for instruments to be the first 127 instruments.
Bx 032. 02  Set "bank" for instruments to be the next 127 instruments.
Bx 038. nn  Set NRPN fine value to nn.
Bx 098. nn  Set the NRPN fine index to nn.
Bx 120. __  Go off-track.  Silences the channel immediately.
Bx 122. off go on-track on next track transition.
            target track specified by NRPN; see below.
Bx 122. on  go on-song on next track transition.


 {System common group}
F0  Enter System Exclusive Mode (see below)
F3  Song select (1 byte payload)
        Specifies the song index for the next Start (see below)
F7  Exit System Exclusive Mode

 {Realtime group, no payloads}
F8  System clock byte
FA  Start
        Takes all channels on-song immediately, resets track clock.
FB  Continue
FC  Pause
FE  Active sense
FF  System reset

Commands understood when a channel is off-track:

Non-Registered Parameter Numbers:

    MIDI provides a 14-bit address space of 14-bit values called
    "Non-Registered Parameters".  Since these bits are entirely
    free-range, we use them to convey data outside the protocol down
    to the device.

    We so far use only the fine NRPN space (leaving the top 7 bits
    as 0).

    NRPN 0x00 : Assigning value of the form 0cccccpppppppp invokes
                command c with parameter p on selected channel.  Note
                that we require the trasmission order of fine and then
                coarse.  If fine is ommitted, the parameter's bottom
                seven bits are considered to be 0; the interpretation
                happens on the setting of the coarse half.

    NRPN 0x10 : when set, specifies the target track for on-track
                transitions.  This value is consulted at the track
                transition for as long as the channel remains on-track,
                providing ample opportunity to drive on-track channels
                during playback.

    NRPN 0x70 : Set the device ID (fine value only).  This number is
                stored in EEPROM or FLASH and so this command should
                be used only rarely!

    NRPN 0x71 : Set the base channel to use, rather than 0.  Note that
                for parsing simplicity, we only allow this to be 0, 4,
                8, or 12.  Still, that should be enough to get out of
                the way of other devices.

System Exclusive Mode:

    SEM data are prefixed with the following header:
        0xF0 (enter SYSEX), SYSEX ID, Device ID, Sub-id 1, Sub-id 2
    As mentioned above, we use a non-standard manufacturer ID (SYSEX ID);
    our device ID is as set by NRPN above.  SYSEX ID 7E and 7F are
    reserved for standardized command vocabularies.

    We define our own SYSEX command, namely PUSH IHEX, with command
    sub-id1 and sub-id2 both 0x00.  Upon receipt of this command, the
    device stops playing and enters a primitive bootloader, which reads
    IHEX lines off the MIDI bus (ignoring all realtime messages received
    and bailing on receipt of a non-RT status byte).  IHEX has the
    convenient property that all of its data is 7-bit clean.

    XXX Do we also want to support the more standard file transfer?

    Identify appears to be defined already in 7E/06 01 and 7E/06 02.
    We return with "device family code" and "device family number code"
    of all zeros for the moment; our software revision may eventually
    become meaningful.
